# Paginate results
You can use the following methods to paginate search results in OpenSearch:

- **The `from` and `size` parameters**
- **The scroll search operation**
- **The `search_after` parameter**
- **Point in Time with `search_after`**

## The from and size parameters
```json
GET ecommerce/_search
{
  "from": 0,
  "size": 10,
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "manufacturer": "Elitelligence"
    }
  }
}
```

`GET ecommerce/_search?from=0&size=10`

## Scroll search
The from and size parameters allow you to paginate your search results but with a limit of 10,000 results at a time.

If you need to request volumes of data larger than 1 PB from, for example, a machine learning job, use the scroll operation instead. The scroll operation allows you to request an unlimited number of results.

To use the scroll operation, add a scroll parameter to the request header with a search context telling OpenSearch for how long you need to keep scrolling. This search context needs to be long enough to process a single batch of results.

To set the number of results that you want returned for each batch, use the size parameter:

```
GET ecommerce/_search?scroll=10m
{
  "size": 5
}
```

> Get the scroll_id from response


```
GET _search/scroll
{
  "scroll": "10m",
  "scroll_id": "DXF1ZXJ5QW5kRmV0Y2gBAAAAAAAAAAUWdmpUZDhnRFBUcWFtV21nMmFwUGJEQQ=="
}
```

Using this scroll ID, you get results in batches of 10,000 as long as the search context is still open. Typically, the scroll ID does not change between requests, but it can change

If you expect billions of results, use a sliced scroll. Slicing allows you to perform multiple scroll operations for the same request but in parallel. Set the ID and the maximum number of slices for the scroll:

```
GET ecommerce/_search?scroll=10m
{
  "slice": {
    "id": 0,
    "max": 10
  },
  "query": {
    "match_all": {}
  }
}
```

Close the search context when you’re done scrolling, because it continues to consume computing resources until the timeout:

```
DELETE _search/scroll/DXF1ZXJ5QW5kRmV0Y2gBAAAAAAAAAAcWdmpUZDhnRFBUcWFtV21nMmFwUGJEQQ==
```

## The search_after parameter
The search_after parameter provides a live cursor that uses the previous page’s results to obtain the next page’s results. It is similar to the scroll operation in that it is meant to scroll many queries in parallel. You can use search_after only when sorting is applied.

```json
GET ecommerce/_search
{
  "size": 3,
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "manufacturer": "Elitelligence"
    }
  },
  "sort": [
    { "products.category.keyword": "asc" },
    { "_id": "asc" } 
  ]
}
```

> The response contains the `sort` array of values for each document:


You can use the last result’s sort values to retrieve the next result by using the search_after parameter:

```json
GET ecommerce/_search
{
  "size": 10,
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "manufacturer": "Elitelligence"
    }
  },
  "search_after": [ "Men's Accessories", "1047"],
  "sort": [
    { "products.category.keyword": "asc" },
    { "_id": "asc" } 
  ]
}
```

> Unlike the scroll operation, the search_after parameter is stateless, so the document order may change because of documents being indexed or deleted.


# PIT - point in time

>Point in Time (PIT) with search_after is the preferred pagination method in OpenSearch, especially for deep pagination. It bypasses the limitations of all other methods because it operates on a dataset that is frozen in time, it is not bound to a query, and it supports consistent pagination going forward and backward

PIT search has the same capabilities as regular search, except PIT search acts on an older dataset, while a regular search acts on a live dataset. PIT search is not bound to a query, so you can run different queries on the same dataset, which is frozen in time

### Pagination with PIT and search_after

Creat a [PIT](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/searching-data/point-in-time-api/)

```
POST /my-index-1/_search/point_in_time?keep_alive=100m
```

> Get the pit_id and use in search

First run a search and notice
> you cannot use pit on specific indices, it has to be on all

```json
GET _search
{
  "size": 10,
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "manufacturer": "Elitelligence"
    }
  },
  "search_after": [ "Men's Accessories", "1047"],
  "sort": [
    { "products.category.keyword": "asc" },
    { "_id": "asc" } 
  ],
  "pit": {
    "id":  "87mEQQEJZWNvbW1lcmNlFjA2VWpVQ2k5VDlTODRSS0prZGp2cUEAFloxTFBoS0xWUmtHZVpzT3g5RjhlaVEAAAAAAAAAAHAWb2FjeUdBVVNTQWFJWjlSY3JaNnJiUQEWMDZValVDaTlUOVM4NFJLSmtkanZxQQAA", 
    "keep_alive": "100m"
  }
}
```

For slicing etc. read [more](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/searching-data/point-in-time/)

