# Autocomplete

Autocomplete shows suggestions to users while they type.

For example, if a user types “pop,” OpenSearch provides suggestions like “popcorn” or “popsicles.” These suggestions preempt your user’s intention and lead them to a possible search term more quickly.

OpenSearch lets you design autocomplete that updates with each keystroke, provides a few relevant suggestions, and tolerates typos.

## Implementing Autocomplete

Implement autocomplete using one of the following methods:

- **Prefix matching**
- **Edge n-gram matching**
- **Search as you type**
- **Completion suggesters**

While prefix matching happens at query time, the other three methods happen at index time. All methods are described in the following sections.

## Prefix matching
Prefix matching finds documents that match the last term in a query string.

For example, assume that the user types “qui” into a search UI. To autocomplete this phrase, use the match_phrase_prefix query to search for all text_entry field values that begin with the prefix “qui”:

```
GET shakespeare/_search
{
    "query": {
        "match_phrase_prefix": {
            "text_entry": {
                "query": "qui",
                "slop": 3
            }
        }
    }
}
```
To make the word order and relative positions flexible, specify a slop value.

> Prefix matching doesn’t require any special mappings. It works with your data as is. However, it’s a fairly resource-intensive operation. A prefix of a could match hundreds of thousands of terms and not be useful to your user. To limit the impact of prefix expansion, set max_expansions to a reasonable number

```
GET shakespeare/_search
{
    "query": {
        "match_phrase_prefix": {
            "text_entry": {
                "query": "qui",
                "slop": 3,
                "max_expansions": 10
            }
        }
    }
}
```

> The ease of implementing query-time autocomplete comes at the cost of performance. When implementing this feature on a large scale, we recommend an index-time solution. With an index-time solution, you might experience slower indexing, but it’s a price you pay only once and not for every query. The edge n-gram, search-as-you-type, and completion suggester methods are index-time solutions.


## Edge n-gram matching

> compare this with ngrams where each word is ngrammed , whereas this ngrams only at the edge

During indexing, edge n-grams split a word into a sequence of n characters to support a faster lookup of partial search terms.

> Delete ecommerce index if it exists and recreate. Mappings below can be executed only at creation time.

> or use a python script `create_ecommerce_original_edge_ngrams.py` in scripts/search

```json
PUT ecommerce
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "products.product_name": {
        "type": "text",
        "analyzer": "autocomplete"
      }
    }
  },
  "settings": {
    "analysis": {
      "filter": {
        "edge_ngram_filter": {
          "type": "edge_ngram",
          "min_gram": 1,
          "max_gram": 20
        }
      },
      "analyzer": {
        "autocomplete": {
          "type": "custom",
          "tokenizer": "standard",
          "filter": [
            "lowercase",
            "edge_ngram_filter"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The edge_ngram_filter produces edge n-grams with a minimum n-gram length of 1 (a single letter) and a maximum length of 20. So it offers suggestions for words of up to 20 letters.

Test the analyzer as below:

```
POST ecommerce/_analyze
{
  "analyzer": "autocomplete",
  "text": "summer"
}
```

> Use the standard analyzer at search time. Otherwise, the search query splits into edge n-grams and you get results for everything that matches s, u, and m etc. This is one of the few occasions when you use different analyzers at index time and at query time:

```json
GET ecommerce/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "products.product_name": {
        "query": "sum",
        "analyzer": "standard"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Alternatively, specify the search_analyzer in the mapping itself:

```json
"mappings": {
  "properties": {
    "product.product_name": {
      "type": "text",
      "analyzer": "autocomplete",
      "search_analyzer": "standard"
    }
  }
}
```

## Completion Suggester
The completion suggester accepts a list of suggestions and builds them into a finite-state transducer (FST), an optimized data structure that is essentially a graph. This data structure lives in memory and is optimized for fast prefix lookups. To learn more about FSTs, see [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finite-state_transducer).

As the user types, the completion suggester moves through the FST graph one character at a time along a matching path. After it runs out of user input, it examines the remaining endings to produce a list of suggestions.

The completion suggester makes your autocomplete solution as efficient as possible and lets you have explicit control over its suggestions.

```json
PUT ecommerce
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "text_entry": {
        "type": "completion"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Control size
```
GET ecommerce/_search
{
  "suggest": {
    "autocomplete": {
      "prefix": "summer",
      "completion": {
        "field": "products.product_name",
        "size": 3
      }
    }
  }
}
```

If you want specific documents returned as suggestions, you can manually add curated suggestions and add weights to prioritize your suggestions.
- Observer that input is a new field array under product_name. If you search without weight, the document won't return, but with weight it does and at the top 

```
PUT ecommerce/_doc/10001?refresh=true
{
  "products.product_name": {
    "input": [
      "summer dress", "spring dress"
    ],
    "weight": 10
  }
}
```

```
GET ecommerce/_search
{
  "suggest": {
    "autocomplete": {
      "prefix": "summer",
      "completion": {
        "field": "products.product_name"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Misspelings can be matched

```
GET ecommerce/_search
{
  "suggest": {
    "autocomplete": {
      "prefix": "smmer",
      "completion": {
        "field": "products.product_name",
        "size": 3,
        "fuzzy": {
          "fuzziness": "AUTO"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

or regular expression

```
GET ecommerce/_search
{
  "suggest": {
    "autocomplete": {
      "prefix": "sum*",
      "completion": {
        "field": "products.product_name",
        "size": 3,
        "fuzzy": {
          "fuzziness": "AUTO"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Search as you type
OpenSearch has a dedicated search_as_you_type field type that is optimized for search-as-you-type functionality and can match terms using both prefix and infix completion. The search_as_you_type field does not require you to set up a custom analyzer or index suggestions beforehand.

```
PUT ecommerce
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "products.product_name": {
        "type": "search_as_you_type"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

After you index a document, OpenSearch automatically creates and stores its n-grams and edge n-grams

- First, it is split into terms using the standard analyzer, and the terms are stored in the "products.product_name" field
- In addition to storing these terms, the following 2-grams for this field are stored in the field products.product_name._2gram
- The following 3-grams for this field are stored in the field products.product_name._3gram
- Finally, after an edge n-gram token filter is applied, the resulting terms are stored in the products.product_name._index_prefix field

You can then match terms in any order using the bool_prefix type of a multi-match query

```json
GET ecommerce/_search
{
  "query": {
    "multi_match": {
      "query": "shirt black",
      "type": "bool_prefix",
      "fields": [
        "products.product_name",
        "products.product_name._2gram",
        "products.product_name._3gram"
      ]
    }
  },
  "size": 3
}
```

To match terms in order, you can use a `match_phrase_prefix` query

Finally, to match the last term exactly and not as a prefix, you can use a `match_phrase` query