# k-NN search
hort for k-nearest neighbors, the k-NN plugin enables users to search for the k-nearest neighbors to a query point across an index of vectors. To determine the neighbors, you can specify the space (the distance function) you want to use to measure the distance between points.

## Approximate k-NN
These algorithms sacrifice indexing speed and search accuracy in return for performance benefits such as lower latency, smaller memory footprints and more scalable search.
- Approximate k-NN is the best choice for searches over large indexes (that is, hundreds of thousands of vectors or more) that require low latency. 
- You should not use approximate k-NN if you want to apply a filter on the index before the k-NN search, which greatly reduces the number of vectors to be searched. In this case, you should use either the script scoring method or Painless extensions.

## Script Score k-NN
Extends OpenSearch’s script scoring functionality to execute a brute force, exact k-NN search over “knn_vector” fields or fields that can represent binary objects. With this approach, you can run k-NN search on a subset of vectors in your index (sometimes referred to as a pre-filter search).
- Use this approach for searches over smaller bodies of documents or when a pre-filter is needed. 
- Using this approach on large indexes may lead to high latencies.

## Painless extensions
Adds the distance functions as painless extensions that you can use in more complex combinations. Similar to the k-NN Script Score, you can use this method to perform a brute force, exact k-NN search across an index, which also supports pre-filtering.
- This approach has slightly slower query performance compared to the k-NN Script Score. 
- If your use case requires more customization over the final score, you should use this approach over Script Score k-NN

# Which one to use
- Overall, for larger data sets, you should generally choose the approximate nearest neighbor method because it scales significantly better. 
- For smaller data sets, where you may want to apply a filter, you should choose the custom scoring approach. - If you have a more complex use case where you need to use a distance function as part of their scoring method, you should use the painless scripting approach