# Overview
# Managing Indexes: Index Rollups
Time series data increases storage costs, strains cluster health, and slows down aggregations over time. Index rollup lets you periodically reduce data granularity by rolling up old data into summarized indexes.

You pick the fields that interest you and use index rollup to create a new index with only those fields aggregated into coarser time buckets. You can store months or years of historical data at a fraction of the cost with the same query performance.

For example, say you collect CPU consumption data every five seconds and store it on a hot node. Instead of moving older data to a read-only warm node, you can roll up or compress this data with only the average CPU consumption per day or with a 10% decrease in its interval every week.

You can use index rollup in three ways:

1. **Index Rollup API**: Use the index rollup API for an on-demand index rollup job that operates on an index that’s not being actively ingested such as a rolled-over index. For example, you can perform an index rollup operation to reduce data collected at a five minute interval to a weekly average for trend analysis.

2. **OpenSearch Dashboards UI**: Use the OpenSearch Dashboards UI to create an index rollup job that runs on a defined schedule. You can also set it up to roll up your indexes as it’s being actively ingested. For example, you can continuously roll up Logstash indexes from a five second interval to a one hour interval.

3. **ISM Action**: Specify the index rollup job as an ISM action for complete index management. This allows you to roll up an index after a certain event such as a rollover, index age reaching a certain point, index becoming read-only, and so on. You can also have rollover and index rollup jobs running in sequence, where the rollover first moves the current index to a warm node and then the index rollup job creates a new index with the minimized data on the hot node.

# More
- https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/im-plugin/index-rollups/index/